And welcome back.
We're going to take a quick break from learning javascript syntax to show you how javascript gets implemented
in the browser.
We're going to go back to this image that we've seen many times before in this course.
And we have a pretty good idea of what a e-mail and CSX does.
If you remember a CML gets sent to the browser then it sees the link tag and the CSX gets sent to the
browser.
But what about our new friend javascript over here.
What happens with him well in this video.
We're going to learn exactly that so I have over here an index that ACM all file.
I'm going to open it with Google Chrome.
It's completely empty now.
And I'm also going to drag it to my sublime text so that we can add something to it
so I have Sublime Text and the browser and we're gonna use our little short command to create a quick
a simple file javascript and let's just have a simple header that says javascript and HMO save and refresh.
Perfect.
We're M. is this already.
We all know what's going on.
So how do we add javascript to this.
I mean with CSX we had the link tag right.
And we had this track where we tell it where it is well if you remember javascript again just like a
months assess is just a file.
So let's create one first and sublime text.
I'm going to create a new file.
I'm going to save it and I'm going to say script dot J S see the dot J.S. at the end.
That means javascript.
Notice what happens when I click save at the bottom sublime text.
Now converted the syntax to javascript.
So now I can write something like four plus three and I get the cool javascript colors I can write if
four plus three equals seven I can alert you're smart so you can see that it does the syntax for me
OK perfect man I just save that.
Let's see if we can add this to.
I forgot the semicolon here.
I always forget it too.
Let's add this to our HMO if it works we'll get an alert saying you're a smart so how can we do this.
Well there's an Asian male tag called script tag so link tag for style sheet.
Script tag for JavaScript and all we do is this.
We have that type text javascript you see over here how with CSX we have text CSX while we're telling
it that this is javascript and in here JavaScript can be run right over here if I go alert Hello.
And you might remember this because it's kind of like the style tag for CSX.
Let's see what happens.
And to refresh and I get Hello.
Look at that.
We just added javascript to our HMO but I really want to use this file as we know with CSX.
We don't necessarily want our javascript to live on a simple we want separation of concerns.
We want the javascript and the javascript file.
Well the way we do that is through a source file so all we do is source.
You might remember this from images.
So instead of h ref and link we have source and we say script dot J S I save and I refresh and I get
your smart now.
Again we can say script digest because well it's in the same folder.
It's in the desktop folder.
If it wasn't then let's say this a Shia e-mail wasn't in the desktop folder we'd have to do something
like desktop
OK.
So that's very interesting what if I have multiple JavaScript files we might have seen that in remember
bootstrap and bootstrap.
We had like three script tags.
Well yeah you can just just like he can with link you can have multiple script X and you can just say
script to script 3 and again each one gets executed one at a time OK now one question you might have
is why did I just put the script tag at the bottom here at the bottom of the body.
Why didn't we let me just remove this for now.
Why don't we just put it at the top like we do with the CSF file.
Well let me show you something.
Let's put it up here.
Let's see what happens.
I'm going to refresh OK I get your smart.
I don't know if you saw that.
Did you see the javascript go.
Let's change this quickly let's say our Web site is now fresh and new and I'm going to say waiting for
JavaScript going to save notice what happens to the header I refresh it hasn't changed yet I have to
click your smart you see it's completely gone click OK and only then it shows up because the browser
reads the file goes and gets the CSX file and then sees a script tag and says well I'm going to go read
what's over here and here is an alert.
And what an alert does it.
It waits for us to click OK so the browser can't display waiting for JavaScript so you will see an older
Web sites people that put the script tags in here but that actually delays what gets seen by the user
instead if we put it down here and change the text again to not waiting in a safe let's see what happens
not waiting for JavaScript that got changed so we ideally want to put our script tags at the bottom
of the body.
What that means is that the Web site gets displayed gets rendered and then we have to still wait for
the javascript to load let's say we had a cool animation.
You'll have to wait until that loads but to a user it appears like the Web site loads a lot faster because
they might not click on a drop down menu or see the animation right away and notice that there is a
lie but they will see a delay if they don't see anything on the page.
So script tax at the bottom one last thing.
How do we get that console to print stuff out it would be nice if instead of alert all the time I can
get something in the console.
Well in JavaScript you can do something called console to log and here I can say hello so this syntax
is a little bit weird.
I'll explain later on what is going on here but console dialogue is a special little syntax that we
can use.
And now if I refresh the page I get logging over here so I can write as much as I want here.
Kind of like alert but without getting that annoying pop up over and over and refresh and I get hello
and we'll be using console log a lot in the next couple of videos.
You can see here that it's a nice way for us to print something to the console before we learn how to
change our e-mail so I'll see in the next four.